Welcome to the first part of coding an eye for the DOT connector game.
All right, so I'm in My Geass file, so right at the top where we have our game parameters, what I'm
going to do is, first off, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create to create a constant called
delay A.I. because we would like it to first highlight a side, then select that specific side.
Right.
And right after that, let's go ahead and let's create a time for the FBI as well.
So I'm going to say time I.
Perfect.
And if we go to our click function, we say that if it is not player's turn return, but we actually
we are checking for time and but we need to pass in the player's turn as well.
So I'm going to say players, if it is not player's turn or.
If it is if we are in the end game, we do not want to select any side.
It means that if the A.I. is selecting, we should not be able to select anything.
For example, if I selected something here so I decide, then it is going to be the ice turn.
But during that time, I should not be able to select any other side.
All right, so, for example, let's go ahead and it's like this, and I can see I cannot select now
I cancel it until the A.I. chooses or select suicide.
We should not be able to select anything.
There we go.
You can see that we cannot.
So and I think we do have another one of that as well.
And that is highlights side and go to highlight where is our highlight.
Great.
I think it's up top.
So I'm just going to this is highlights side, this is our new game function.
This is highlighted.
There we go.
Here we also want to implement the same thing.
So if it is not player's turn or it is time and we just want to go ahead and we want to return.
Perfect.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and collapse all these functions first just
to make this navigation a bit smoother.
All right.
So this is a site and also the square class schraub, the draw squares, draw scores, draw a line,
draw a grid, draw a dot, draw board and finally click.
So what I'm going to do down beneath here, I'm going to create a function and I'm just going to call
it EHI.
Right.
So what this function is going to do is this function is going to contain our logic for creating this
A.I..
All right, so now let's go ahead and let's create this function, so I'm going to come below this grid,
get grid Y and in here I'm just going to provide a comment and I'm going to say ehi function.
Right.
So this is going to be the eye function.
So it is going to be function, the name is just going to be I they're not going to be any parameters
in here.
They're just going to pass.
We're just going to code here.
So first off, I'm just going to pass.
And that if it is the player's turn.
All right, players turn.
In this case, the players turn as the turn of the eye to play or if it is time and then we don't want
to do anything.
We just want to go ahead and we want to return from this function.
Next up, what I would like to do is.
I would like to set up that delay that we have, so set up the delay and it is going to be time.
Time and I is going to be equal to the math, Dalziell.
All right, so seal and Mark, the seal returns the smallest integer, greater than or equal to its
numeric argument.
Right.
And we are going to pass in here our delay 80 times the frames per second.
So delay is one second frames per second is 60.
So it is going to delay the 60 frames and because we have 60 frames in one second.
So it is going to delay the eye by exactly one second.
Next up, let's go ahead and let's create a countdown until the computer makes its selection.
So I'm just going to say count down.
Until the FBI makes its selection perfect and we are going to say f time II, Time II is greater than
zero.
We are going to grab time and we are going to decrement it.
And then within that if statement, we are going to check that F time.
If Time III is equal to zero.
If time is equal to zero, we want to switch the player now here, what I'm going to do is we are going
to select the we are going to grab the select side function.
But I'm going to commented out and I'm just going to hear for testing purposes, of course, for testing
purposes, just going to switch the player.
We're going to come in this one because I just want to test to see if this is going to work or not.
So Player's turn is not going to be the player start.
Basically, we want to switch and then we want to return from this function.
Right.
So.
With that, let's go ahead and let's actually check this if we can't see anything, so if I come here,
I'm just going to reload this page and this is actually where we're working.
So I'm just going to I'm just going to close that one so I can see it is my turn.
And if I select something, it is the eyes turn and the air has to select.
But because we have not done any kind of coding for the the it doesn't select anything.
So let's go ahead and let's actually set up a a priority set up priorities for the year.
So priority Ts for the A.I. and based on these priorities the is going to make a selection.
It didn't because we did not set up any selections for the air, any priority.
So we are going to have first priority.
So I'm just going to ride them out here because you have to understand them.
Our logic is going to be based on these three priorities.
The first one is going to be to select a square that has that has three sides completed.
So the first priority is to select a square that has three sites completed.
And why is this the first priority?
Because whenever the selects the fourth side, the air is going to clean that square.
Right.
So that should be our first priority.
The second priority is to select.
A square.
Now, this is going to take in two conditions that has zero or so, that zero is condition one or one
is condition to sides zero or one site site completed.
So if it is zero, it means that it doesn't have any sites completed, then that is a safe square to
celebrate.
But even if it has only one site completed, that is still a safe square to select.
And finally, the third priority and actually the worst of them or the are not the the not the good
scenario is whenever the eye has to make a selection and that selection will allow the user to score.
So we are going to select a square.
Square that has two sides completed, so we need to account for that as well.
And the reason that we need to account for this priority is whenever there isn't any square that has
three sides completed or or like it doesn't have any sites completed or at least one side completed,
then the one might make a move and our game would be stuck there.
We don't want to we don't want it to stuck there.
We want to make sure that there is a winner there.
So now let's go ahead.
And let's first off, we are going to set up so setting up the options array and within these options
that we are going to pass on these three priorities.
So first off, we are going to say options are going to be an empty threat.
And then the first item within this option is going to be an empty array.
And the same goes for the second.
And the third the third items within this and next stop, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to say
populating Palm, populating the options are we need to populate it.
Right.
And let's see what we need to do here.
So first off, let's go ahead and let's iterate our squares array, because all the squares are there.
So we are going to settle for let I.
Equal to zero I is less than the squares that length, because it starts from Zero and Workington Tremendo,
I buy one each time.
Now let's go ahead and let's iterate over our columns as well.
All right.
So we are going to therefore let J equal to zero and we are going to say J is.
Less than the squares.
Squares, first item now squirter zero is going to be our first row and we will be iterating over to
the first row all the columns within our first row, all the columns within our second row and so on.
So we're going to start with our first row and we are going to say that J should be incremented by one
each time.
Now.
In here, we are going to create a few a few cases now, these cases are created to make sure that the
eye chooses correctly and, of course, wisely.
So first off, now these cases are based on these sites or these priorities that we have created here.
So we are going to have case three, which means that a square has three sites completed.
We are going to have Chris sorry, Chris.
We are going to have case zero, which means that a square has zero sites completed.
We are going to have case one just going to either unless it means that a square has one site completed
and we are going to have a case two, which means Square has two sites completed.
So first, we need to check for all of them.
So we are going to switch.
And what is the array that we are looking inside?
That is going to be our squares area and we want to grab the the rows and the columns.
Now we have a number selected property that is going to give us how many sites have been selected in
case it is three.
It means that it is our first priority, what do we want to do in this case now?
In this case, we want to grab our options away and we are going to grab the first item because zero
is that.
And to that, we are going to push the square's array.
All right, and we're going to say squares.
Squares I and I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to copy this part because it's just a bit time
consuming to type it.
So then we have our break.
And now let's move on to our the other case now.
In this case case, a sorry square has zero sites completed.
And we are just going to breeze through this case to the next case, which which is one a square has
only one set completed.
Now, inside this case, we don't have any break.
So it is going to flow through zero to one.
So we don't need to really put it because the logic that we've provided is just for the second priority.
So this is second priority as well as the one above.
So let's just put it there as well.
Now, what do we want to do in our second priority and this second priority?
Basically, we want to grab all of that and push it to our second option, which is options one, and
then we want to break from it.
Just put it there, let's save it.
Yeah, it did indented.
And finally, we are at our third priority, which is the worst one, and it is going to be case two.
There isn't is two is because we have two sites completed.
I'm going to say third priority.
And in here, basically, we want to do the same thing.
Whenever we find something, we just want to push it to that.
And this should be so we have zero one and this should be two.
All right.
All right, so.
Next stop, what I would like to do as let's go ahead and let's actually make the A.I. to randomly choose
a side based on the priority or so before actually here.
I'm just going to write here randomly.
Randomly choose a site in priority order or based on the priority order, based on the.
Priority.
Or if it is misspelled, just forgive me for that, I just want to move on.
So for that, first of all, I'm going to do as we are going to create a variable called option for
each of our individual options.
And we are going to say if now if it is our first priority, we need to select from the options with
our options this one options zero index.
So I'm just going to grab that because this is going to be our very first priority.
And we are going to say that we are going to grab the length.
If the length is greater than zero, what do we want to do?
We want to make the EHI to randomly select a column.
Now, what is this prior to say?
It means that in this priority, we have three sites completed.
All right.
So it is going to be first priority right here.
When it is when there are three sites completed, the A.I. is going to be randomized when it comes to
columns.
And what does that randomization is going to give the it is going to give the a choice to whether select
the square that has already three sets completed or just to give that to the user.
All right.
That's why we are going to randomize it.
We are going to say options and it is going to be the zero.
So the row is going to be our row first.
That is why we are not going to change the row, but we are going to change the column.
So we are going to say math, dot floor and math dot random times the options.
Zero item, dot length, right?
So and so this is going to be whenever we have our first priority, what about the rest of them?
So let me just go ahead and copy that and let's just put it here.
So in our second priority, what we have is when the options one, the length is greater than zero,
we want the option to be the options.
So this is going to be the wrong number two.
And we are going to passan number two here as well.
Right.
So it is going to choose from one of those columns.
And finally, let me just copy that and let's just put it here.
This is going to be two and.
Two and also two.
Perfect, so next up, let's go ahead and let's grab the squares, coordinates, and we are going to
pass on the coordinates for the A.I. to actually select them.
So let's see where we should put them.
So what?
I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to put them down here and I'm going to call them getting the
squares, coordinates.
All right, so what do we want to do here?
I'm just going to initialize the variable and I'm going to say coordinates.
Coordinates is going to be our option, the option that the FAA has selected and then we are going to
call in a get free side, sorry.
Yeah, it is going to be get free site coordinates function.
We haven't created this function and we will be creating that.
And then we are because whenever the whenever either the EHI or the Are iSelect decide, they're going
to highlight it first.
So we are going to call in our highlight site and we need to pass an exposition, as you can see here,
and a Y position.
So the exposition is going to be the exposition of the coordinates and the Y position is going to be
the Y position of the coordinates.
Right.
And next up, let's actually go ahead and let's create this function so we know what it is that we are
actually doing.
So I'm just going to collapse this.
All right, I did do that, I think so I'm going to grab that one, this one drawer side drawer sides
as well and highlight side, select side.
So after the draw sides here, I'm going to create a function and that is get free site coordinates.
This is going to be an area function.
Right, and in here, first off, we need varlet coordinates for each of the sites, so we have valid
coordinates, coordinates for each.
Of the site.
Perfect, so let's just remove that and we are going to call it coordinates bottom for the bottom and
we are going to say now this is going to be an an object.
The reason that it is an object is because we are going to pass in two properties for coordinates.
We are going to have X and Y.
And we need to posehn both of them right here.
So for the Sidebottom, what is going to be the coordinate sorry, when it is Sidebottom, what is the
X coordinate?
The X coordinate is going to be this the left plus half of the width.
So this W divided by two.
And what is going to be the Y coordinates.
The Y coordinates is going to be disturbed bottom.
We are selecting it in reverse, so I'm just going to pass and negative one.
And let's go ahead and let's create we are going to create these coordinates and we are going to leave
it leave it right here and we're going to pick it up in our next lecture.
All right.
From continuing in our next lecture, then I'm going to say coordinates left.
And for this, we are going to have an exposition, which is this the left, this stuff left, and we
are going to have a Y position, which is going to be this top plus half of the height divided by two.
Perfect.
Let's grab the coordinates are right are Eigsti.
And for that we are also going to have an object.
Now, whenever we're moving towards the right, we tend to grab the light, the latest square within
that array.
So what we're going to do is you're going to say this, that, right, minus one.
And the Y position for that is going to be this top plus half of the height of the square.
So this that height divided by two and finally the coordinates.
For the top is going to be what is going to be the ex, the ex is going to be this star left the left
position plus half of the width.
So this W divided by two and four.
The Y we are we are just going to say it is the start top.
So that's it for this naturalise.
In the next lecture we are going to pick up where we left off in this one.
So see you guys then.